docs/guide/input-file-upload.md, before:

Uploading Files
===============

Uploading files in Yii is usually done with the help of [[yii\web\UploadedFile]] which encapsulates each uploaded
file as an `UploadedFile` object. Combined with [[yii\widgets\ActiveForm]] and [models](structure-models.md),
you can easily implement a secure file uploading mechanism.


## Creating Models <span id="creating-models"></span>

Like working with plain text inputs, to upload a single file you would create a model class and use an attribute
of the model to keep the uploaded file instance. You should also declare a validation rule to validate the file upload.
For example,

```php
namespace app\models;

use yii\base\Model;
use yii\web\UploadedFile;

class UploadForm extends Model
{
    /**
     * @var UploadedFile
     */
    public $imageFile;

    public function rules()
    {
        return [
            [['imageFile'], 'file', 'skipOnEmpty' => false, 'extensions' => 'png, jpg'],
        ];
    }
    
    public function upload()
    {
        if ($this->validate()) {
            $this->imageFile->saveAs('uploads/' . $this->imageFile->baseName . '.' . $this->imageFile->extension);
            return true;
        } else {
            return false;
        }
    }
}
```

In the code above, the `imageFile` attribute is used to keep the uploaded file instance. It is associated with
a `file` validation rule which uses [[yii\validators\FileValidator]] to ensure a file with extension name `png` or `jpg`
is uploaded. The `upload()` method will perform the validation and save the uploaded file on the server.

The `file` validator allows you to check file extensions, size, MIME type, etc. Please refer to
the [Core Validators](tutorial-core-validators.md#file) section for more details.

> Tip: If you are uploading an image, you may consider using the `image` validator instead. The `image` validator is
  implemented via [[yii\validators\ImageValidator]] which verifies if an attribute has received a valid image 
  that can be then either saved or processed using the [Imagine Extension](https://github.com/yiisoft/yii2-imagine).


## Rendering File Input <span id="rendering-file-input"></span>

Next, create a file input in a view:

```php
<?php
use yii\widgets\ActiveForm;
?>

<?php $form = ActiveForm::begin(['options' => ['enctype' => 'multipart/form-data']]) ?>

    <?= $form->field($model, 'imageFile')->fileInput() ?>

    <button>Submit</button>

<?php ActiveForm::end() ?>
```

It is important to remember that you add the `enctype` option to the form so that the file can be properly uploaded.
The `fileInput()` call will render a `<input type="file">` tag which will allow users to select a file to upload.


## Wiring Up <span id="wiring-up"></span>

Now in a controller action, write the code to wire up the model and the view to implement file uploading:

```php
namespace app\controllers;

use Yii;
use yii\web\Controller;
use app\models\UploadForm;
use yii\web\UploadedFile;

class SiteController extends Controller
{
    public function actionUpload()
    {
        $model = new UploadForm();

        if (Yii::$app->request->isPost) {
            $model->imageFile = UploadedFile::getInstance($model, 'imageFile');
            if ($model->upload()) {
                // file is uploaded successfully
                return;
            }
        }

        return $this->render('upload', ['model' => $model]);
    }
}
```

In the above code, when the form is submitted, the [[yii\web\UploadedFile::getInstance()]] method is called
to represent the uploaded file as an `UploadedFile` instance. We then rely on the model validation to make sure
the uploaded file is valid and save the file on the server.


## Uploading Multiple Files <span id="uploading-multiple-files"></span>

You can also upload multiple files at once, with some adjustments to the code listed in the previous subsections.

First you should adjust the model class by adding the `maxFiles` option in the `file` validation rule to limit
the maximum number of files allowed to upload. The `upload()` method should also be updated to save the uploaded files
one by one.

```php
namespace app\models;

use yii\base\Model;
use yii\web\UploadedFile;

class UploadForm extends Model
{
    /**
     * @var UploadedFile[]
     */
    public $imageFiles;

    public function rules()
    {
        return [
            [['imageFiles'], 'file', 'skipOnEmpty' => false, 'extensions' => 'png, jpg', 'maxFiles' => 4],
        ];
    }
    
    public function upload()
    {
        if ($this->validate()) { 
            foreach ($this->imageFiles as $file) {
                $file->saveAs('uploads/' . $file->baseName . '.' . $file->extension);
            }
            return true;
        } else {
            return false;
        }
    }
}
```

In the view file, you should add the `multiple` option to the `fileInput()` call so that the file upload field
can receive multiple files:
 
```php
<?php
use yii\widgets\ActiveForm;
?>

<?php $form = ActiveForm::begin(['options' => ['enctype' => 'multipart/form-data']]) ?>

    <?= $form->field($model, 'imageFiles[]')->fileInput(['multiple' => true, 'accept' => 'image/*']) ?>

    <button>Submit</button>

<?php ActiveForm::end() ?>
```

And finally in the controller action, you should call `UploadedFile::getInstances()` instead of 
`UploadedFile::getInstance()` to assign an array of `UploadedFile` instances to `UploadForm::imageFiles`. 

```php
namespace app\controllers;

use Yii;
use yii\web\Controller;
use app\models\UploadForm;
use yii\web\UploadedFile;

class SiteController extends Controller
{
    public function actionUpload()
    {
        $model = new UploadForm();

        if (Yii::$app->request->isPost) {
            $model->imageFiles = UploadedFile::getInstances($model, 'imageFiles');
            if ($model->upload()) {
                // file is uploaded successfully
                return;
            }
        }

        return $this->render('upload', ['model' => $model]);
    }
}
```

Commit message:

Guide EN,RU: Input file upload updated

docs/guide/input-file-upload.md, after:

Uploading Files
===============

Uploading files in Yii is usually done with the help of [[yii\web\UploadedFile]] which encapsulates each uploaded
file as an `UploadedFile` object. Combined with [[yii\widgets\ActiveForm]] and [models](structure-models.md),
you can easily implement a secure file uploading mechanism.


## Creating Models <span id="creating-models"></span>

Like working with plain text inputs, to upload a single file you would create a model class and use an attribute
of the model to keep the uploaded file instance. You should also declare a validation rule to validate the file upload.
For example,

```php
namespace app\models;

use yii\base\Model;
use yii\web\UploadedFile;

class UploadForm extends Model
{
    /**
     * @var UploadedFile
     */
    public $imageFile;

    public function rules()
    {
        return [
            [['imageFile'], 'file', 'skipOnEmpty' => false, 'extensions' => 'png, jpg'],
        ];
    }
    
    public function upload()
    {
        if ($this->validate()) {
            $this->imageFile->saveAs('uploads/' . $this->imageFile->baseName . '.' . $this->imageFile->extension);
            return true;
        } else {
            return false;
        }
    }
}
```

In the code above, the `imageFile` attribute is used to keep the uploaded file instance. It is associated with
a `file` validation rule which uses [[yii\validators\FileValidator]] to ensure a file with extension name `png` or `jpg`
is uploaded. The `upload()` method will perform the validation and save the uploaded file on the server.

The `file` validator allows you to check file extensions, size, MIME type, etc. Please refer to
the [Core Validators](tutorial-core-validators.md#file) section for more details.

> Tip: If you are uploading an image, you may consider using the `image` validator instead. The `image` validator is
  implemented via [[yii\validators\ImageValidator]] which verifies if an attribute has received a valid image 
  that can be then either saved or processed using the [Imagine Extension](https://github.com/yiisoft/yii2-imagine).


## Rendering File Input <span id="rendering-file-input"></span>

Next, create a file input in a view:

```php
<?php
use yii\widgets\ActiveForm;
?>

<?php $form = ActiveForm::begin(['options' => ['enctype' => 'multipart/form-data']]) ?>

    <?= $form->field($model, 'imageFile')->fileInput() ?>

    <button>Submit</button>

<?php ActiveForm::end() ?>
```

It is important to remember that you add the `enctype` option to the form so that the file can be properly uploaded.
The `fileInput()` call will render a `<input type="file">` tag which will allow users to select a file to upload.


## Wiring Up <span id="wiring-up"></span>

Now in a controller action, write the code to wire up the model and the view to implement file uploading:

```php
namespace app\controllers;

use Yii;
use yii\web\Controller;
use app\models\UploadForm;
use yii\web\UploadedFile;

class SiteController extends Controller
{
    public function actionUpload()
    {
        $model = new UploadForm();

        if (Yii::$app->request->isPost) {
            $model->imageFile = UploadedFile::getInstance($model, 'imageFile');
            if ($model->upload()) {
                // file is uploaded successfully
                return;
            }
        }

        return $this->render('upload', ['model' => $model]);
    }
}
```

In the above code, when the form is submitted, the [[yii\web\UploadedFile::getInstance()]] method is called
to represent the uploaded file as an `UploadedFile` instance. We then rely on the model validation to make sure
the uploaded file is valid and save the file on the server.


## Uploading Multiple Files <span id="uploading-multiple-files"></span>

You can also upload multiple files at once, with some adjustments to the code listed in the previous subsections.

First you should adjust the model class by adding the `maxFiles` option in the `file` validation rule to limit
the maximum number of files allowed to upload. Setting `maxFiles` to `0` means there is no limit on the number of files
that can be uploaded simultaneously. The maximum number of files allowed to be uploaded simultaneously is also limited
with PHP directive [`max_file_uploads`](http://php.net/manual/en/ini.core.php#ini.max-file-uploads),
which defaults to 20. The `upload()` method should also be updated to save the uploaded files one by one.

```php
namespace app\models;

use yii\base\Model;
use yii\web\UploadedFile;

class UploadForm extends Model
{
    /**
     * @var UploadedFile[]
     */
    public $imageFiles;

    public function rules()
    {
        return [
            [['imageFiles'], 'file', 'skipOnEmpty' => false, 'extensions' => 'png, jpg', 'maxFiles' => 4],
        ];
    }
    
    public function upload()
    {
        if ($this->validate()) { 
            foreach ($this->imageFiles as $file) {
                $file->saveAs('uploads/' . $file->baseName . '.' . $file->extension);
            }
            return true;
        } else {
            return false;
        }
    }
}
```

In the view file, you should add the `multiple` option to the `fileInput()` call so that the file upload field
can receive multiple files:
 
```php
<?php
use yii\widgets\ActiveForm;
?>

<?php $form = ActiveForm::begin(['options' => ['enctype' => 'multipart/form-data']]) ?>

    <?= $form->field($model, 'imageFiles[]')->fileInput(['multiple' => true, 'accept' => 'image/*']) ?>

    <button>Submit</button>

<?php ActiveForm::end() ?>
```

And finally in the controller action, you should call `UploadedFile::getInstances()` instead of 
`UploadedFile::getInstance()` to assign an array of `UploadedFile` instances to `UploadForm::imageFiles`. 

```php
namespace app\controllers;

use Yii;
use yii\web\Controller;
use app\models\UploadForm;
use yii\web\UploadedFile;

class SiteController extends Controller
{
    public function actionUpload()
    {
        $model = new UploadForm();

        if (Yii::$app->request->isPost) {
            $model->imageFiles = UploadedFile::getInstances($model, 'imageFiles');
            if ($model->upload()) {
                // file is uploaded successfully
                return;
            }
        }

        return $this->render('upload', ['model' => $model]);
    }
}
```
