docs/documentation_style_guide.md, before:

# Yii Documentation Style Guide

Guidelines to go by when writing or editing any Yii documentation.

*This needs to be expanded.*

## General Style

* Try to use an active voice.
* Use short, declarative sentences.
* Demonstrate ideas using code as much as possible.
* Never use "we". It's the Yii development team or the Yii core team. Better yet to put things in terms of the framework or the guide.
* Use the Oxford comma (e.g., "this, that, and the other" not "this, that and the other").
* Numeric lists should be complete sentences that end with periods (or other punctuation).
* Bullet lists should be fragments that don't end with periods.

## Formatting

* Use *italics* for emphasis, never capitalization, bold, or underlines.

## Blocks

Blocks use the Markdown `> Type: `. There are four block types:

* `Warning`, for bad security things and other problems
* `Note`, to emphasize key concepts, things to avoid
* `Info`, general information (an aside); not as strong as a "Note"
* `Tip`, pro tips, extras, can be useful but may not be needed by everyone all the time

The sentence after the colon should begin with a capital letter.

## References

* Yii 2.0 or Yii 2 (not Yii2 or Yii2.0)
* Each "page" of the guide is referred to as a "section".

## Capitalizations

* Web, not web
* the guide or this guide, not the Guide

Commit message:

block types in the guide should not be translated in the code
otherwise parsing them is not easy. also translation becomes redundant.
We now introduce a json file to have translations for these blocks in a central place.

see also https://github.com/yiisoft-contrib/yiiframework.com/issues/77#issuecomment-164208003

docs/documentation_style_guide.md, after:

# Yii Documentation Style Guide

Guidelines to go by when writing or editing any Yii documentation.

*This needs to be expanded.*

## General Style

* Try to use an active voice.
* Use short, declarative sentences.
* Demonstrate ideas using code as much as possible.
* Never use "we". It's the Yii development team or the Yii core team. Better yet to put things in terms of the framework or the guide.
* Use the Oxford comma (e.g., "this, that, and the other" not "this, that and the other").
* Numeric lists should be complete sentences that end with periods (or other punctuation).
* Bullet lists should be fragments that don't end with periods.

## Formatting

* Use *italics* for emphasis, never capitalization, bold, or underlines.

## Blocks

Blocks use the Markdown `> Type: `. There are four block types:

* `Warning`, for bad security things and other problems
* `Note`, to emphasize key concepts, things to avoid
* `Info`, general information (an aside); not as strong as a "Note"
* `Tip`, pro tips, extras, can be useful but may not be needed by everyone all the time

The sentence after the colon should begin with a capital letter.

When translating documentation, these Block indicators should not be translated.
Keeps them intact as they are and only translate the block content.
For translating the `Type` word, each guide translation should have a `blocktypes.json` file
containing the translations. The following shows an example for german:

```json
{
    "Warning:": "Achtung:",
    "Note:": "Hinweis:",
    "Info:": "Info:",
    "Tip:": "Tipp:"
}
```

## References

* Yii 2.0 or Yii 2 (not Yii2 or Yii2.0)
* Each "page" of the guide is referred to as a "section".

## Capitalizations

* Web, not web
* the guide or this guide, not the Guide
